---
author: hongbo
date: "2018-03-13"
previewImg:
title: A Small Step for BuckleScript...
description: ...and a big one for the community!
---


## Reason, Belt and the Community

BuckleScript is a compiler, a set of type system enhancements, a build system
and a great deal of JavaScript interoperability features rolled into one. From
day one, its goal has been to provide a rock solid, lightweight and performant
stack for the community. So far, we'd like to think that we've done a great
job.

Alas, such a centralized effort can only scale so much. We'll continue to
polish the foundation, tweak features and respond to demands, but
BuckleScript's ready to tackle bigger challenges alongside our sister project,
Reason. This is where **you**, the community, comes in.

This week, we're opening up a new suite of additions to the standard library,
named **Belt**. Belt has been in closed beta for a while now; some of you might
have heard of it or even used it. Now, the time's ripe to open it up to the
broader public.

In the following weeks, we'll gradually outline the motivations, the design
decisions and the future plans for Belt on this blog. However, new additions to
the standard library aren't a small feat, and we can't possibly tackle all of
them by ourselves. Your feedback as a community member will be very
appreciated, and we **will** do our best to stay open to feedback, more so that
we have ever done for the core compiler and build system. Belt's development
will have more of an open process; we'll be monitoring the issue list closely
for changes/features requests and tagging the them with Good First Task
  (contribution welcome). At the same time, we hope to clean up the
  repository's workflow a bit too, to ease future contributions.

Thank you for your continued support, and here's to a brighter future for
BuckleScript and Reason! Stay tuned for the first of several posts on Belt. See
you soon!
